Pressure from the world can erode
our determination to do what is right.
At times, even a mature Christian
may be inclined to do what is bad.
Please find Romans 7:21-23.
The apostle Paul was certainly mature,
but notice what he said of himself
as we read Romans 7:21-23:
“I find, then, this law in my case:
“When I wish to do what is right,
“what is bad is present in me.
“I really delight in the law of God
“according to the man I am within,
“but I see in my body another law
“warring against the law of my mind
“and leading me captive to sin’s law
that is in my body.”
Like Paul, we might find that we have a war,
or a struggle, inside us
as we fight against the law of sin.
However, like Paul,
we know that for us to please Jehovah,
we must live in harmony with His standards.
Look at 1 Corinthians 6:9, 10.
What are some of Jehovah’s moral standards?
Notice the list of moral issues
that we choose not to succumb to.
At 1 Corinthians 6:9, 10, it says:
“Or do you not know that unrighteous people
“will not inherit God’s Kingdom?
“Do not be misled.
“Those who are sexually immoral,
“idolaters, adulterers,
“men who submit to homosexual acts,
“men who practice homosexuality,
“thieves, greedy people,
“drunkards, revilers, and extortioners
will not inherit God’s Kingdom.”
We must be firmly convinced
that these moral standards
of Jehovah are right and beneficial.
Why can we have faith in these standards?
To find out, find Isaiah 48:17.
Here you will see
that we can have faith in God’s standards
because they always benefit us.
Isaiah 48:17 says:
“This is what Jehovah says,
“your Repurchaser, the Holy One of Israel:
“‘I, Jehovah, am your God,
“‘the One teaching you to benefit yourself,
the One guiding you
in the way you should walk.’”
Did you see the point?
Jehovah is teaching us
to benefit ourselves.
We can have faith
in his standards of right and wrong.
They’re unchanging,
and they produce good results
under all circumstances and in all cultures.
Consider God’s standard for marriage.
Jehovah created marriage as a permanent,
loving union between a man and a woman.
Jehovah gave Adam a wife, Eve
—not Eve and B and D—
just Eve.
He told them:
“Be fruitful and become many . . .
Fill the . . . earth.”
Let’s look at 1 Corinthians 6:18.
It is making the point that sex
outside of marriage
is prohibited by Jehovah.
First Corinthians 6:18 says:
“Flee from sexual immorality!
“Every other sin that a man may commit
“is outside his body,
“but whoever practices sexual immorality
is sinning against his own body.”
When family members
follow Jehovah’s standards,
the family is secure, stable, and happy.
In the following video, note how a couple
benefited from applying
God’s moral standards.
We met at a party when I was in the military.
I was on the dance floor, and I saw Frenchie.
And I was like, ‘Oh!
I’m going to talk to this girl right here.’
The whole time we were just smiling
at each other
—this instant attraction.
It was mutual.
Gradually, we were living together.
And a few months go by,
and things are going well,
and then I find out I’m pregnant.
And he left.
I was shocked
(though I shouldn’t have been),
but I was shocked.
And truthfully, I was scared,
like, ‘What am I going to do now?’
I felt like a failure,
and I kept asking myself,
‘How did I let this happen?’
I knew that I had to be there,
and I wanted to be there.
I just didn’t know how.
We prayed together for the first time
as a couple.
That was a Friday night.
Saturday morning, we had a knock on the door.
We decided to have a Bible study.
They had us study the chapter
on family life and marriage.
At that moment,
I knew that I wanted to have our relationship
be honorable before Jehovah.
You learn that Jehovah
meant for marriages to be a permanent bond.
The insecurities of every disagreement
ending in a breakup or a divorce
—all of that went away.
We started to see Jehovah’s training
in practical ways,
just learning
how to be a husband
who respected and cared for his wife.
We became partners
—a team, a complement—
and that was only because Jehovah
taught us how to do it.
Though it was difficult at the outset,
we made that decision
to dedicate our life to do Jehovah’s will,
and we got baptized together.
We’ve been married 25 years,
and the insecurities are gone.
I focus on all the blessings that have come
just from keeping Jehovah in our life,
and that’s the best feeling in the world.
You can go at it on your own,
but you’ll never find the joy,
you’ll never find the peace,
you’ll never find the security
that comes from doing it Jehovah’s way.
It was only after coming to know Jehovah
and having faith in his standards
that the couple came to have a stable
and enduring marriage of 25 years.
What about us?
How can we strengthen our faith
in God’s moral standards?
Contemplate the benefits
of obeying God’s moral standards
and the consequences of disobeying them.
Note two Bible principles.
Deuteronomy 32:29 says:
“[Be] wise! . . .
Ponder over this . . .
Think about [the] outcome.”
In other words, contemplate the benefits
of obeying God’s moral standards.
In contrast, the consequences of disobeying
God’s moral standards can be severe.
Galatians 6:8 says:
“[Sow] with a view to his flesh
[and] reap corruption from [the] flesh.”
The world’s entertainment industry
often ignores this fact.
Your faith in God’s standards will grow
as you experience
the benefits of living by them.
Obeying God’s moral standards
protects us physically,
emotionally, and spiritually.
Jehovah’s standards make us wise
so that we do not have to learn
from painful experiences.
To illustrate:
You’re driving, and you see a sign.
It says: “School speed limit:
15 miles an hour.”
What if you do not adhere
to that standard of law?
Suppose you are driving at 50 miles an hour.
You hit a child crossing the road.
The consequence for not obeying the standard—
that would be
an extremely painful experience.
Jehovah’s standards protect us from the pain.
Let’s conclude by sharing
some verses from Psalm 19.
Please turn there.
This psalm is speaking
about Jehovah’s standards,
his laws, and reminders.
We will first read Psalm 19:7:
“The law of Jehovah is perfect,
“restoring strength.
“The reminder of Jehovah is trustworthy,
making the inexperienced one wise.”
We do not need
to remain naive and inexperienced.
We become wise.
Now read with me verses 8 and 9:
“The orders from Jehovah are righteous,
“causing the heart to rejoice;
“the commandment of Jehovah is clean,
“making the eyes shine.
“The fear of Jehovah is pure,
“lasting forever.
“The judgments of Jehovah are true,
altogether righteous.”
Living by God’s standards
brings approval from Jehovah.
We enjoy a clean conscience
and a good relationship with him.
Finally, verse 11 says:
“By them your servant has been warned;
in keeping them, there is a large reward.”
It says “a large reward” awaits us.
Have faith in God’s moral standards.
Obey them and become wise.
They will protect you physically,
emotionally, and spiritually.
You will have a clean conscience
and Jehovah’s approval
—and in the end, everlasting life.
Brother Gerrit Lösch of the Governing Body
will now present
the final talk of this symposium,
“Why We Have Faith in . . . God’s Love.”